New term entry for Java.nextDown() (#1153)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/math-methods/terms/next-down/next-down.md

---
Title: '.nextDown()'

Description: 'Returns the floating-point value adjacent to the parameter provided in the direction of negative infinity.'

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'

Tags:
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Numbers'

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`Math.nextDown()`** method returns the floating-point value adjacent to the parameter provided in the direction of negative infinity.

## Syntax

```pseudo
Math.nextDown(x)
```

- The argument `x` can be of type `double` or `float`.
- The return type is of `double` or `float`.

> - This method is semantically equivalent to `nextAfter(d, Double.NEGATIVE_INFINITY);` or `nextAfter(f, Float.NEGATIVE_INFINITY);` however, a nextDown implementation may run faster than its equivalent nextAfter call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Though it is the opposite of [`.nextAfter()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/math-methods/nextAfter), the `.nextDown()` method is semantically equivalent to `nextAfter(d, Double.NEGATIVE_INFINITY);` or `nextAfter(f, Float.NEGATIVE_INFINITY);`.

> **Note:** A `.nextDown()` implementation may run faster than its equivalent `.nextAfter()` call.
```

> Special Cases:
> 
> - If the argument is NaN, the result is NaN.
> - If the argument is negative infinity, the result is negative infinity.
> - If the argument is zero, the result is `-Double.MIN_VALUE` or `-Float.MIN_VALUE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Special cases include the following:

- If `x` is `NaN`, the result is `NaN`.
- If `x` is negative infinity, the result is negative infinity.
- If `x` is zero, the result is `-Double.MIN_VALUE` or `-Float.MIN_VALUE`.
```

## Example

> The following example demonstrates using `Math.nextDown(x)`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of the `.nextDown()` method:
```
